web/docs/tutorials/todo-app/creating-new-project.md, before:

---
title: "Creating a new project"
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

Run the following command in your terminal to create a new Wasp project:
```shell-session
wasp new TodoApp
```
Enter the created directory and run:
```shell-session
cd TodoApp
wasp start
```
You have just run your app in the development mode!

:::note
`wasp start` might take a little bit longer, due to the first time setup.
:::

You will be seeing a lot of different output from the client, server and database setting themselves up.
Once ready, a new tab should open in your browser at `http://localhost:3000`, with simple placeholder page:

<img alt="Screenshot of new Wasp app"
     src={useBaseUrl('img/wasp-new-screenshot.png')}
     style={{ border: "1px solid black" }}
     height="400px"
/>

We just set the foundations of our app! We don't have yet the features to show it, but Wasp has already generated for us the full front-end and back-end code of the app. Take a peek at `TodoApp/.wasp/out` if you are curious and see how it looks like!

## Taking a closer look at the code

Let's inspect the Wasp project we just created:
```bash
.
├── .gitignore
├── main.wasp             # Your wasp code goes here.
├── src
│   ├── client            # Your client code (JS/CSS/HTML) goes here.
│   │   ├── jsconfig.json
│   │   ├── Main.css
│   │   ├── MainPage.js
│   │   └── waspLogo.png
│   ├── server            # Your server code (Node JS) goes here.
│   │   └── jsconfig.json
│   ├── shared            # Your shared code goes here.
│   │   └── jsconfig.json
│   └── .waspignore
└── .wasproot
```
By _your code_, we mean _"the code you write"_ (as opposed to the code generated by Wasp). Wasp expects you to separate all external code into three folders to make it clear which runtime executes what:
- `src/server` - Contains the code executed on the server (i.e., in Node) 
- `src/client` - Contains the code executed on the client (i.e., JS in the browser) 
- `src/shared` - Contains the code you want to use on both the client and the server (e.g., utility functions) 

Let's start with the `main.wasp` file, which introduces 3 new concepts:
[app](language/features.md#app),
[page](language/features.md#page) and
[route](language/features.md#route).

```c title="main.wasp"
app TodoApp { // Main declaration, defines a new web app.
  wasp: {
    version: "^0.6.0"
  },
  title: "Todo app" // Used as a browser tab title.
}

route RootRoute { path: "/", to: MainPage } // Render page MainPage on url `/` (default url).

page MainPage {
  // We specify that ReactJS implementation of our page can be found in
  // `src/client/MainPage.js` as a default export (uses standard js import syntax).
  // Use '@client' to reference files inside the src/client folder.
  component: import Main from "@client/MainPage.js"
}
```

Let's now take a look at that React component we referenced in the `page MainPage { ... }` declaration in `main.wasp`:
```jsx title="src/client/MainPage.js"
import React from 'react'
import waspLogo from './waspLogo.png'
import './Main.css'

const MainPage = () => {
  ...
}
export default MainPage
```
As we can see, this is simply a functional React component which uses the CSS and Wasp logo files sitting next to it in the `src/client` dir.

This is all the code we need!
Wasp quietly takes care of everything else needed to define, build, and run a web app.

:::tip
`wasp start` automatically picks up the changes you make and restarts the app, so keep it running.
:::

## Cleaning up

Let's make our first changes!
To prepare the clean slate for building the TodoApp, delete the files `Main.css` and `waspLogo.png` from the `src/client/` folder (`src/shared` and `src/server` are already clean). The `jsconfig.json` files are necessary for IDE support, so it's important to keep them. Now that `src/client` contains only `jsconfig.json` and `MainPage.js` let's start by making the `MainPage` component much simpler:

```jsx title="src/client/MainPage.js"
import React from 'react'

const MainPage = () => {
  return <div> Hello world! </div>
}
export default MainPage
```

At this point, you should be seeing something like

<img alt="Todo App - Hello World"
     src={useBaseUrl('img/todo-app-hello-world.png')}
     style={{ border: "1px solid black" }}
/>

Ok, next step, some real Todo app features!

Commit message:

add typescript info to todo tutoriial

web/docs/tutorials/todo-app/creating-new-project.md, after:

---
title: "Creating a new project"
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

Run the following command in your terminal to create a new Wasp project:
```shell-session
wasp new TodoApp
```
Enter the created directory and run:
```shell-session
cd TodoApp
wasp start
```
You have just run your app in the development mode!

:::note
`wasp start` might take a little bit longer, due to the first time setup.
:::

You will be seeing a lot of different output from the client, server and database setting themselves up.
Once ready, a new tab should open in your browser at `http://localhost:3000`, with simple placeholder page:

<img alt="Screenshot of new Wasp app"
     src={useBaseUrl('img/wasp-new-screenshot.png')}
     style={{ border: "1px solid black" }}
     height="400px"
/>

We just set the foundations of our app! We don't have yet the features to show it, but Wasp has already generated for us the full front-end and back-end code of the app. Take a peek at `TodoApp/.wasp/out` if you are curious and see how it looks like!

## Taking a closer look at the code

Let's inspect the Wasp project we just created:
```bash
.
├── .gitignore
├── main.wasp             # Your wasp code goes here.
├── src
│   ├── client            # Your client code (JS/CSS/HTML) goes here.
│   │   ├── jsconfig.json
│   │   ├── Main.css
│   │   ├── MainPage.js
│   │   └── waspLogo.png
│   ├── server            # Your server code (Node JS) goes here.
│   │   └── jsconfig.json
│   ├── shared            # Your shared code goes here.
│   │   └── jsconfig.json
│   └── .waspignore
└── .wasproot
```
By _your code_, we mean _"the code you write"_ (as opposed to the code generated by Wasp). Wasp expects you to separate all external code into three folders to make it clear which runtime executes what:
- `src/server` - Contains the code executed on the server (i.e., in Node) 
- `src/client` - Contains the code executed on the client (i.e., JS in the browser) 
- `src/shared` - Contains the code you want to use on both the client and the server (e.g., utility functions) 

:::note Typescript Support
We've introduced Typescript support in Beta version 0.7.0, but you are free to use js/jsx or ts/tsx syntax as you see fit.

For this tutorial, we will simply use vanilla Javascript and JSX syntax 🍦
:::

Let's start with the `main.wasp` file, which introduces 3 new concepts:
[app](language/features.md#app),
[page](language/features.md#page) and
[route](language/features.md#route).

```c title="main.wasp"
app TodoApp { // Main declaration, defines a new web app.
  wasp: {
    version: "^0.6.0"
  },
  title: "Todo app" // Used as a browser tab title.
}

route RootRoute { path: "/", to: MainPage } // Render page MainPage on url `/` (default url).

page MainPage {
  // We specify that ReactJS implementation of our page can be found in
  // `src/client/MainPage.js` as a default export (uses standard js import syntax).
  // Use '@client' to reference files inside the src/client folder.
  component: import Main from "@client/MainPage.js"
}
```

Let's now take a look at that React component we referenced in the `page MainPage { ... }` declaration in `main.wasp`:
```jsx title="src/client/MainPage.js"
import React from 'react'
import waspLogo from './waspLogo.png'
import './Main.css'

const MainPage = () => {
  ...
}
export default MainPage
```
As we can see, this is simply a functional React component which uses the CSS and Wasp logo files sitting next to it in the `src/client` dir.

This is all the code we need!
Wasp quietly takes care of everything else needed to define, build, and run a web app.

:::tip
`wasp start` automatically picks up the changes you make and restarts the app, so keep it running.
:::

## Cleaning up

Let's make our first changes!
To prepare the clean slate for building the TodoApp, delete the files `Main.css` and `waspLogo.png` from the `src/client/` folder (`src/shared` and `src/server` are already clean). The `jsconfig.json` files are necessary for IDE support, so it's important to keep them. Now that `src/client` contains only `jsconfig.json` and `MainPage.js` let's start by making the `MainPage` component much simpler:

```jsx title="src/client/MainPage.js"
import React from 'react'

const MainPage = () => {
  return <div> Hello world! </div>
}
export default MainPage
```

At this point, you should be seeing something like

<img alt="Todo App - Hello World"
     src={useBaseUrl('img/todo-app-hello-world.png')}
     style={{ border: "1px solid black" }}
/>

Ok, next step, some real Todo app features!
