web/docs/tutorials/todo-app/the-end.md, before:

---
title: "The End"
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

We did it! For all those that followed the instructions closely and created "Build a Todo App in Wasp" task in our Todo App, let's celebrate by marking it as done :)!

<img alt="Yay we are done with the Todo App tutorial!" 
     src={useBaseUrl('img/todo-app-tutorial-end.gif')}
     style={{ border: '1px solid black' }}
/>

You can check out the whole code of the app that we just built [here](https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp/tree/main/examples/tutorials/TodoApp).

If you are interested in what is Wasp actually generating in the background, you can check the `.wasp/out/` directory in your project.

## Where next?

Well, you could check [the "Language" section](language/overview.md) of the docs for more details on specific parts of Wasp.  
Or, you could try to build something on your own with Wasp!  

If you find some features you would like to have are missing, or have any other kind of feedback, please write to us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/rzdnErX) or create an issue on [Github](https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp), so we can learn which features to add/improve next.  
Even better, if you would like to contribute or help building the feature, let us know!
You can find more details on contributing [here](contributing.md).

Commit message:

Update docs and todo tutorial (#834)
* Updated wasp version to 0.7.0-rc.

* update todo app and feat for beta

* add typescript info to todo tutoriial

* fix cabal version

Co-authored-by: Martin Sosic <sosic.martin@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Filip Sodić <filip.sodic@gmail.com>

web/docs/tutorials/todo-app/the-end.md, after:

---
title: "The End"
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

We did it! For all those that followed the instructions closely and created "Build a Todo App in Wasp" task in our Todo App, let's celebrate by marking it as done :)!

<img alt="Yay we are done with the Todo App tutorial!" 
     src={useBaseUrl('img/todo-app-tutorial-end.gif')}
     style={{ border: '1px solid black' }}
/>

You can check out the whole code of the app that we just built [here](https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp/tree/main/examples/tutorials/TodoApp).

If you are interested in what is Wasp actually generating in the background, you can check the `.wasp/out/` directory in your project.

## Tailwind CSS Support

We introduced Tailwind CSS support in our Beta version 0.7.0! 🎨

If you want to style your app with sweet tailwind css classes, all you have to do is add a couple config files to your app. Check out [this guide](https://www.wasp-lang.dev/blog/2022/11/16/tailwind-feature-announcement)
) to learn more!

## Where next?

Well, you could check [the "Language" section](language/overview.md) of the docs for more details on specific parts of Wasp.  
Or, you could try to build something on your own with Wasp!  

If you find some features you would like to have are missing, or have any other kind of feedback, please write to us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/rzdnErX) or create an issue on [Github](https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp), so we can learn which features to add/improve next.  
Even better, if you would like to contribute or help building the feature, let us know!
You can find more details on contributing [here](contributing.md).
